Tesseract for Windows binaries

Please Note: The compiled version of Tesseract is bleeding edge code. So this might be broken or partly working.

Hi all,

This is a short description how to install Tesseract on your computer.

It's actually pretty easy:

There are 2 exe files:

tesseract-core-yyyymmdd.exe
Tesseract core application without language data

tesseract-langs-yyyymmdd.exe
All the language data available for Tesseract.

yyyymmdd means year 4 digits, month 2 digits and day 2 digits.

The app is portable so you can install it on a USB stick or in another location.

Steps to install:
1. Download the tesseract-core and tesseract-langs packages.
2. Double click the tesseract-core package and extract it to a directory where you want it to be.
3. Double click the tesseract-langs package and extract it to the same directory but add \tessdata to it.
For example if i would have extracted tesseract-core to c:\tesseract, tesseract-langs needs to go to c:\tesseract\tessdata.

Open up a command prompt and navigate to your installation path.

For a test you can enter:

tesseract filename.tif filename -l eng pdf

This will generate a filename.txt and a filename.pdf file.
The PDF files are searchable.

Please note: For blind people this PDF version is a little bit broken at the moment and you can't read all the text. Use the normal text output.

You can also create a hOCR file which is a kind of HTML file with this command:

tesseract filename.tif filename -l eng hocr

And you can just create a text file by doing this:

tesseract filename.tif filename -l eng

In the tessdata directory you will find all kinds of languages.
the -l flag activates the languages.
deu for german, eng for english or rus for russian or ukr for ukrainian and so on.
Please check the tessdata directory for more languages.

You can also add more languages to check a multi language text.

tesseract filename.tif filename -l eng+deu

This will activate for example the english and german language modules.

The doc directory contains some documentation.

Tesseract currently supports multipage TIF files, JPG, WEBP files and others.
It doesn't support multipage PDFs as input.
Though you might use ImageMagick to convert multipage PDF to a multipage TIF file.

To stay up to date you can check on the following url:
http://domasofan.spdns.eu/tesseract/

The tesseract-langs package might not be updated so often so you don't need to redownload the large file all the time.

When there are updates you can extract the file into your directory and replace the old files with the new ones.
Just follow the steps above.


The Tesseract source code and language data is aavailable on
https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/

Enjoy.

Greetings,
Simon